1)
a) Big Endian: 03 00 00 00 => Little Endian: 00 00 00 03
b) Rückwärts lesen
c)

2)
a) UDP verbindungslos ; TCP verbindungsorientiert (IP verbindungslos) ; Sockets beides
b) Radio und Fernsehen
c) Bereich von 224.0.0.0 bis 239.255. 255.255

3)
MESSAGE ORIENTED MIDDLEWARE:
- Message-oriented middleware (MOM)  is middleware where transactions or event notifications are delivered between disparate 
systems or components by way of messages, often via an enterprise messaging system. With MOM, messages sent to the client 
are collected and stored until they are acted upon, while the client continues with other processing.

- An enterprise messaging system is a type of middleware that facilitates message passing between disparate systems or 
components in standard formats, often using XML, SOAP or web services. As part of an enterprise messaging system, 
message broker software may queue, duplicate, translate and deliver messages to disparate systems or components in a messaging system.

- Enterprise service bus (ESB) is defined by the Burton Group [11] as "some type of integration middleware product that 
supports both message-oriented middleware and Web services".

INTELLIGENT MIDDLEWARE:

-Intelligent Middleware (IMW) provides real-time intelligence and event management through intelligent agents. The IMW manages 
the real-time processing of high volume sensor signals and turns these signals into intelligent and actionable business information.
The actionable information is then delivered in end-user power dashboards to individual users or is pushed to systems within or 
outside the enterprise. It is able to support various heterogeneous types of hardware and software and provides an API for interfacing 
with external systems. It should have a highly scalable, distributed architecture which embeds intelligence throughout the network to 
transform raw data systematically into actionable and relevant knowledge. It can also be packaged with tools to view and manage 
operations and build advanced network applications most effectively.

CONTENT CENTRIC MIDDLEWARE:
-offers a simple provider-consumer abstraction through which applications can issue requests for uniquely identified content, without 
worrying about where or how it is obtained. Juno is one example, which allows applications to generate content requests associated 
with high-level delivery requirements.[13] The middleware then adapts the underlying delivery to access the content from sources that 
are best suited to matching the requirements. This is therefore similar to Publish/subscribe middleware, as well as the Content-centric 
networking paradigm.

-Remote procedure call middleware enables a client to use services running on remote systems. The process can be synchronous or asynchronous.
-With object request broker middleware, it is possible for applications to send objects and request services in an object-oriented system.
-SQL-oriented Data Access is middleware between applications and database servers.
-Embedded middleware provides communication services and software/firmware integration interface that operates between embedded applications, the embedded operating system, and external applications.